Title- 

Employee Hiring Database


Project Description- 

This application is created for an assignment for the 4th Semester Subject- Web Technologies 2 at Anant National University (https://anu.edu.in/). We had been intructed to use the Random User Generator API (https://randomuser.me/). The goal of this project was to use the API to creat a web app where the user can do the following-
    
    1. Upon entrance and during the length of the visit "visitor user" sees personalized greeting (please use random user generator to create that "visitor user")
    
    2. Select the amount of results they want to see
    
    3. Initiate new Random User Generator API call (that will not change "visitor user")

    4. See results as a grid of cards with as much information as you feel fit 

    5. Apply different sorting filters to results (preferably without reloading data)

In order to fulfill the criteria of this assignment, I decided to create a Employee Registration Database wherein, the visitor user (generated by the API itself) can check the employees in their company and identify their date of hiring along with their basic details.

Essentially, it mimics how an employer or an employment manager (the visitor user) could use this web app to keep a track of their existing employees and sort them based on their years of service, amongst other factors, such as gender or age.


Psuedocode-

Create a rough HTML with basic visual outline and empty <div> that we will populate with API Data -> Stylise it using css -> Initialise API -> Create function that creates the vistor user upon opening or reloading the site ->  Store the Profile Picture, Full Name, Email, Phone Number, Date of Birth and Gender -> Update this stored Data to the HTML -> Create button that initialises search for employees -> Allow users to select number of results to be seen -> Populate html with information of results upon clicking the search button. Information will be obtained from API. The profile picture, Full name, Age, Date of birth, Email ID, Phone Number, Date of Employement (Registrated Date according to API Documentation) and Years of Employment (Registrated Age according to API Documentation) will be fetched and displayed. -> Functions for sorting data will be added that will allow Visitor User to sort the data based on Employment Duration, Age of Employee, Alphabetical Order of Name and Gender. -> Restart application with new Visitor User on refreshing web page.


Install and Run Instructions- 

    1) Go to the Green-coloured button that is named "Code" and click on the downward pointing arrow at the base of it.
    2) Click on the download ZIP option to download the file on your local device.
    3) Extract the ZIP file to your desired location.
    4) Right click on index.html and select the "Open With" option.
    5) Open the html file in your browser to use it.
    6) To edit the code, add the entire project folder to your preferred integrated development environment (IDE). I use VS Code for the purposes of coding html and js projects.


Usage Instructions-

This project is intended as an open source project and can be cloned and used by any individual after August 2022. This is due to the fact that I do not recieve my grade for this work until August.

If you do use this code for your project, please make sure to credit me and my work. Also in case you have any suggestions for improvements or corrections, feel free to e-mail me at manas.prabhutendolkar@anu.edu.in.


Credits-

    1) Random User Generator API
        (https://randomuser.me/)
    2) Google Fonts 
        Roboto by Christian Robertson (https://fonts.google.com/?query=Christian%20Robertson)
        (https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto)
    3) Photographs from Unsplash
        (https://unsplash.com/)


Conclusion-

Thank you for going through my project. I hope it was helpful in some way or the other. Incase of any changs, I shall update this project in the future. I hope this ends up scoring well. 

Regards,
Manas Prabhutendolkar
